# Ledger
We generally build a linear ledger where each transaction is dependent on other transactions. Let's say we have built a ledger for it but this ledger is maintained for only one single transaction table, what if we have multiple such tables like let's say, we are having money transaction table, then I want to store sensitive user information, I have transaction for it too and it maybe updated in future, however it doesn't change that way but we need to change records sometimes, same for the images of those sensitive details. Now, we have so many transactions for each. For a better system design, let's say our user base has reached to millions, we need to shard data and if we maintain single table for everything, it becomes difficult for us to shard it, hence partitioning is really important but how could we manage the transactions if partitioning happens. 

Transactions might be dependent, might be interdependent, we can't say that only saga pattern is the best method to manage distributed transactions because we don't know its type in reality. Same is for ledger maintenance. Let's say there is no image because he have bypassed the process of image submission or image is handled through other means, now we have maintained a dependency of each table over the other, isn't it ambiguous while designing a system.

Let's say we are having different linear ledgers for maintaining different tables, so we are not maintaining a better system because we are using multiple ledgers, let's say each update calls prev upload with curr changes, then payload is being repeated causing extra space complexities, which is off course not a better system design. Therefore, we can maintain a tree based ledger which has a root creation id and then each updation and transaction adds new record to their children linear ledgers. I could also help us managing the sharding process better because let's say, we have millions of data records, we can shard it based upon users like those users having specific root txId created at the time of creation of user, will be taken in a certain set of records and then partitioned based on table and their updates are stored as ledgers.

I don't know to what extent are these philosophies of mine leads to a greater system design, its just like I assume that it may have not existed because either it is wrong or no one has ever focussed on it. I am not saying that it is the best method but people who are involved in its R&D can look into it and maybe I wish it reaches to the people who do R&D on this topic and could give me feedback regarding this approach. I want to know more about the different approaches to build ledgers to make system more advanced.
